this week, the cantonal medical services of the cantons of Vaud and Geneva have jointly taken the decision to quarantine all of the students and campus staff for ten days,” Geneva health authorities said in a statement.3 hours ago (07:48 GMT)South African Health Minister “We are able to offer a test that can specifically identify the novel B.1.1.529 Omicron SARS-CoV-2 variant to help better understand its spread and behaviour,” Thomas Schinecker, head of Roche Diagnostics, said in a statement.3 hours ago (07:04 GMT)India’s health ministry has said the severity of the COVID-19 disease from the Omicron variant in the country could be low because of vaccination and high exposure to the Delta variant. ’s top scientific adviser, the new strain could become the dominant variant of the virus in the country by the end of January.4 hours ago (06:47 GMT)Spectators attending a major venue for the Beijing 
During the height of the second wave, Barking and Dagenham, Redbridge, and Newham, three neighbouring boroughs in east London, saw the country’s highest infection rates. Between March and April 2020, the first wave of the pandemic, Newham, a historically multicultural hub made up of Asians, Africans, and Afro-Caribbeans, recorded the highest age-standardised rate with 144.3 deaths per 100,000.COVID has had a severe effect, but people are now trying to adapt. When the pandemic started at the beginning of 2020, a Shelter report found that in the borough, one in 24 people was homeless 
India’s health ministry says the severity of the COVID-19 disease from the Omicron variant in the country could be low because of the country the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to Delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low,” it said in a statement on Friday. Thursday confirmed its first cases of the Omicron coronavirus variant in two people and officials said one passenger had arrived from South Africa and the other, a person who had not travelled to the country at all. 
Gaddafi had lodged an appeal in Sebha, but last week a “group of outlaws” launched an “odious” attack on the court, forcing it to shut hours before the appeal hearing, the government in Tripoli said. He was the first heavyweight candidate to sign up for the election, after emerging from years in the shadows and telling The New York Times in July that he was planning a political comeback. the balance of power across swaths of the country, view his presence on the ballot as unacceptable after the bloody struggle to remove his father. 
“landmark moment” earlier this week that saw the first-ever conviction of an ISIL member for the crime of genocide at the regional court in Frankfurt, Germany. The group’s approach “is seen even more clearly in two other key lines of investigation that have accelerated in the last six months: the development and use of chemical and biological weapons by ISIL, and the financial mechanisms through which it sustained its campaign of violence,” he said. “shows that ISIL clearly identified and then seized chemical production factories and other sources of precursor material, while also overtaking the University of Mosul campus as a hub for research and development,” Ritscher said. 
