The 'Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency' bill will create a facilitative framework for an official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India, and ban all private cryptocurrencies. The new rules are also likely to discourage marketing and advertising of cryptocurrencies, to dull their allure for retail investors, said an industry source who was part of a separate parliamentary panel discussion held on Monday. private crypto-assets ultimately while paving the way for a new Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC).The Reserve Bank of India, which has voiced "serious concerns" about private crypto is set to launch its CBDC by December. 
Germans will be "vaccinated, cured or dead" by the end of the winter due to the current outbreak of COVID-19 infections in the country, Health Minister Jens Spahn had warned warned. "Presumably by the end of the winter everyone will be vaccinated, cured or dead" because of the spread of the "very, very contagious" Delta variant, the minister said, once again calling on Germans to get vaccinated "urgently" in the face of an explosion in coronavirus cases in recent weeks. rate among EU member states, sitting squarely at about 23%.Like Bulgaria, Romania has found itself in the throes of a deadly spike in cases, with reports claiming that the morgue in the main hospital in the capital has run out of space for the dead in recent days. 
In an open letter, the directors of Sweden's top financial and environmental regulators called for an EU-wide ban on "proof of work" cryptocurrency mining, for Sweden to "halt the establishment" of new crypto mining operations and for companies The key issue driving the Swedish regulators' intervention is the "proof of work" system used to mint many cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin and Ether, the world's two largest tokens. The process is designed to become more difficult as the number of blocks of validated transactions in the chain increases, meaning more computing power - and therefore energy - is required. 
the Geneva summit with President Biden, "which basically was portrayed as a meeting of two superpowers together," was an example of how the Russians used the previous military build-up "in order to get their place at the table and at a level which they think is proper for them". And such a summit that just serves as a means to massage the ego of Putin and give him a face-saving exit that he can sell to the Russian public and to his own pals that he was not defeated and he wasn't deterred -- even if in fact, of course, he was -- that will not bring any results," "One of the people I spoke to lives on the west side of Donetsk city, which is near one of the worst parts of the frontline. 
I don't want to lead a government whose legitimacy is being called into question," she said at a press conference, where she said she hoped to be re-elected in a subsequent vote. But the Greens said it was in the best interests of the party to pull support for her after the budget defeat in parliament. We must look our voters in the eye and feel pride,” said Marta Stenevi, Green Party spokesperson as the party chose to resign from the government. 
