But in another twist, two attorneys who say they are representing the couple released a statement that said the Crumbleys had left town for their safety and are returning for an arraignment."On Thursday night we contacted the Oakland County prosecutor to discuss this matter and to advise her that James and Jennifer Crumbley would be turning themselves in to be arraigned," the statement from attorneys Shannon Smith and Mariell Lehman said. "Instead of communicating with us, the prosecutor held a press conference to announce charges."The statement added: "They are not fleeing from law enforcement despite recent comments in media reports."A law enforcement official told CNN that the parents withdrew $4,000 from an ATM in Rochester Hills, Michigan, on Friday. Rochester is about 10 to 15 miles from Oxford.Law enforcement had been able to track the couple's whereabouts by cell phone pings but can no longer do so as the couple's cell phones are turned off, the official said.The source did not specify when the phones were turned off.The parents' arraignment had been scheduled for late Friday afternoon, but as of Friday evening the parents were still missing, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's Office.Undersheriff Michael McCabe told CNN that a sergeant with the county's fugitive task force had spoken with one of the attorneys, who said she had not actually talked with the parents.The undersheriff said he is confident the couple will be found and it's a "matter of when."Sheriff Michael Bouchard earlier told CNN that law enforcement had not talked with James and Jennifer Crumbley, but their attorney had told officials that if there were charges she would make arrangements for them to be arrested.He said the attorney had attempted to reach the parents by phone and text without success.When asked by CNN whether the parents are missing, Bouchard said, "correct.""If they think they are going to get away, they are not," he said.The couple weren't under surveillance until "it got closer to last night" when charges were pending and detectives began the process of monitoring them, Bouchard said. There was no early surveillance on them before that because no charges were pending.Every available resource is dedicated to locating them, the sheriff said, adding that people should not approach the couple. US Marshals and the FBI are involved in the search for the Crumbleys, according to Bouchard."The US Marshals Detroit Fugitive Apprehension Team is heading up the search," the agency said in a tweet.The sheriff's office released a statement that said the Crumbleys might be driving a black 2021 Kia Seltos with the Michigan license plate number DQG 5203.Page Pate, a Georgia criminal defense attorney, cautioned that the parents might not be on the run."I have been in this position before, representing someone who's just been charged with a crime," Pate told CNN. "They tend to panic, and when they panic, they do stupid stuff."Pate said the parents might be looking for another lawyer, someone who will give them the answers they want to hear."You're like, 'I don't want to be charged. I don't want to go to jail,' and you try to find someone else," he said.CNN has tried several times to reach the parents' attorney, but she has not returned messages seeking comment.In this rare instance of charging parents, prosecutors will try to prove that the parents of suspected shooter Ethan Crumbley were criminally negligent and contributed to a dangerous situation that resulted in the deaths of four teenagers Tuesday."It's been a devastating week for us," Oakland County District Attorney Karen McDonald said at a press conference. "There are other individuals who contributed ... and it's my intention to hold them accountable as well."Mother called pistol 'his new Christmas present' on social media, prosecutor saysMcDonald said James Crumbley bought the gun four days before it was used in the shooting. His son Ethan was with him and later posted on social media about the gun, calling it "my new beauty."Jennifer Crumbley also posted about the gun on social media, calling it "his new Christmas present," McDonald said.Those are among the chain of events that led up to the shooting, McDonald said.Bouchard said the boy could not legally own the gun or carry it to most places -- with rare exceptions such as shooting ranges.Ethan Crumbley has been charged as an adult with terrorism, murder and other counts in the rampage north of Detroit that also left seven people wounded. The shooting was the deadliest at a US K-12 campus since 2018 and the 32nd such attack since August 1.Lt. Tim Willis, head of the special investigations unit at the Oakland County Sheriff's Office, said that officers were planning to arrest the parents.Addressing reporters, McDonald said she was charging the parents in part to make a point about the responsibility of gun ownership, but that the facts of the case were egregious on their own."I'm angry as a mother. I'm angry as the prosecutor. I'm angry as a person that lives in this county," she said. "There were a lot of things that could have been so simple to prevent and, yes, there was a perfectly executed response, and he was apprehended immediately and we have great law enforcement and good training."But as I said before, four kids were murdered, and then seven more injured, so, yes, I think we should all be very angry."Prosecutor outlines a chilling progression of eventsMcDonald said a teacher saw Ethan Crumbley searching ammunition on his cell phone during class the day before the shooting and reported it to school officials. The school contacted Jennifer Crumbley via voicemail. Officials also sent an email but received no response from either parent, McDonald said."Jennifer Crumbley exchanged text messages about the incident with her son on that day, stating, quote, 'LOL, I'm not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught.' End quote," McDonald said.The day of the shooting, a teacher found a note on Ethan Crumbley's desk that alarmed her so much she took a picture of it on her phone, McDonald said. The note included a drawing of a semiautomatic handgun pointing at the words, "The thoughts won't stop. Help me," she said.Another section was a drawing of a bullet with the words "Blood Everywhere" written above it. Between the drawing of the gun and the bullet is one of a person who seems to have been shot twice and is bleeding, McDonald said."Below that figure is a drawing of a laughing emoji," McDonald said.Also found on the note, according to McDonald: "My life is useless" and "The world is dead."James and Jennifer Crumbley were "immediately summoned to the school," McDonald said. A counselor met with the parents and the boy, who had altered the drawing by scratching out the drawings of the gun and bloody figure, along with the words, according to McDonald.The parents were told to get their son into counseling within 48 hours, McDonald said. Neither parent asked their son to see the gun or "inspect his backpack for the presence of the gun which he had with him," according to McDonald.The parents left school and the boy was sent back to class.When news broke about the shooting, according to McDonald, Jennifer Crumbley sent her son a text: "Ethan, don't do it." James Crumbley called 911 to report a gun was missing and his son might be the shooter.McDonald said investigators found that the gun used in the shooting had been stored unlocked in a drawer in the couple's bedroom.School officials: No disciplinary action was needed.When the meeting was held before the shooting, no disciplinary action was warranted, the school district superintendent said Thursday."No discipline was warranted. There are no discipline records at the high school," Tim Throne, the superintendent of the Oxford Community Schools, said Thursday in a video statement. "Yes, this student did have contact with our front office. And yes, his parents were on campus November 30th."There is a "strong possibility" Crumbley had the gun he allegedly used in the shooting in his backpack during the meeting, McDonald told CNN Thursday night.The school's video surveillance cameras will let investigators "really map out exactly and literally watch what the perpetrator did" from that meeting through the shooting and being taken into custody, Bouchard, the Oakland County sheriff, told CNN on Friday morning.The shooter had the gun "on his person or in his backpack or somehow secreted" it away from a school location, he said.Another warning sign had come Monday -- the day before the shooting -- when a different teacher "saw and heard something that she felt was disturbing" related to Crumbley's conduct in the classroom, Bouchard said. School officials held a counseling session with Crumbley about the behavior in question, and his parents were notified by phone, Bouchard added.Crumbley's defense attorney asked the court Wednesday to enter a not guilty plea on his client's behalf. CNN is trying a new attorney for Ethan Crumbley.School is like a 'war zone,' superintendent saysTwo days after the deadly attack, Oxford High School is "like a war zone," Throne told his community from the school in the 13-minute video posted on YouTube."This high school is a wreck right now," he said, adding repairs could take weeks.The shooting claimed the lives of Madisyn Baldwin, 17; Tate Myre, 16; Hana St. Juliana, 14; and Justin Shilling, 17, officials have said.Throne commended students and staff for how they handled an active shooter threat, during which some administrators performed CPR and students used desks and chairs to barricade themselves inside classrooms for protection.More than 100 calls to 911 were made to report the shooting as police rushed to the school at 12:52 p.m. local time, Bouchard said. Within "two to three minutes" of officers' arrival, the shooter had surrendered."I believe they literally saved lives, having taken down the suspect with a loaded firearm still in the building," the sheriff said.
On Friday, South Africa reported on 16,055 new Covid-19 cases, up from 4,373 new cases on Tuesday.Friday's numbers bring the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases past the 3 million mark since the start of the pandemic, according to data released by the country's National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD)."Today the institute reports 16,055 new COVID-19 cases that have been identified in South Africa, which brings the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases to 3,004,203. This increase represents a 24.3% positivity rate," Friday's statement said.On Thursday, the NICD also revealed that some of the new cases were people who had previously had Covid-19 and had been reinfected with the Omicron variant."Previous infection used to protect against Delta but now with Omicron that doesn't seem to be the case," Professor Anne von Gottberg, a microbiologist from the country's National Institute for Communicable Diseases, said during news briefing on Thursday."We monitored ... reinfections for the Beta and the for the Delta wave, and we didn't see an increase in reinfections over and above what we expect when the force of infection changes, when the wave stops. However, we are seeing an increase for Omicron," she said.Data from South Africa however is showing that reinfections may be less severe, Professor Gottberg said."We believe ... that disease will be less severe," Gottberg said. "And that's what we're trying to prove and to monitor very carefully in South Africa. And the same would hold for those that are vaccinated," she added, stressing that vaccines will continue to help prevent severe disease and hospital admissions as cases continue to rise at a "rapid" rate.As the numbers for new cases continue to rise, the number of deaths seems more stable in comparison, with 25 new Covid-19 related deaths reported on Friday, the NICD said.While only a limited number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country are being sequenced, Gottberg said, out of 249 cases sequenced in November, 183 were confirmed to be the Omicron variant -- equivalent to 70-75% of cases. A total of 65,990 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, according to the NICD.Meanwhile, the World Health Organization also announced that they will deploy a surge team to the country's Gauteng province -- the current epicenter of the Omicron outbreak -- to help with surveillance, sequencing, and contact tracing.The WHO will also be providing technical assistance to boost the production and distribution of medical oxygen in Botswana, where Omicron has also been detected, Dr. Salam Gueye, WHO regional emergency director for Africa said.
In contrast to the blanket silence at home, China's government controlled-media lashed out at the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) on Twitter -- a platform blocked in China -- accusing the organization of "putting on an exaggerated show," and "supporting the West's attack on Chinese system."The two seemingly contradictory approaches reflect the extreme sensitivity attached to the WTA's decision inside of China -- and the explosive #MeToo allegation that sparked it.When Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai publicly accused former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli of sexual assault on social media on November 2, the immediate response from authorities was to muffle her and censor even the vaguest allusion to the allegation.But while that might have worked domestically, it served only to inflame reaction overseas.Peng's prolonged disappearance from public view prompted the world's biggest tennis stars to demand answers to her whereabouts. In response, state media employees released a spate of "proof of life" photos and videos of Peng on Twitter, while authorities continue to censor all mention of her at home.The same approach was applied again on Thursday, when the WTA announced an immediate suspension of all tournaments in China, including Hong Kong, over Beijing's silencing of Peng's sexual assault allegations. Despite the state media firestorm on Twitter, Chinese social media platforms remained calm and quiet, with no sight of the nationalist rage that would usually engulf parties that are deemed to have "offended China.""China's external propaganda on this matter is like a paper box that cannot hold water in front of its own people," said Xiao Qiang, editor-in-chief of China Digital Times, a US-based news website tracking censorship in China."How ironic that they hope to use this narrative to convince the international community."To experts who have long monitored and analyzed China's propaganda efforts, this apparently well-guarded parallel track belies a more chaotic reality."We could talk here about a two-pronged strategy, about how China has enforced complete silence at home while pushing a narrative externally about meddling journalists and the politicizing of sport. But to call it a strategy at all suggests a sophistication that is not really there," said David Bandurski, director of the China Media Project."What we actually see is desperation, the editor-in-chief of one state-run newspaper rushing out on Twitter and banging his dishpan. The point is to distract the world from obvious and damning facts."Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of the government-owned nationalist tabloid Global Times, became the first state employee to challenge the WTA's decision Thursday -- but only on Twitter."WTA is coercing Peng Shuai to support the West's attack on Chinese system. They are depriving Peng Shuai's freedom of expression, demanding that her description of her current situation must meet their expectation," Hu tweeted.That was followed by a Global Times "editorial" posted on Twitter in English, accusing the WTA of "expanding its influence in a speculative way, bringing politics into women's tennis deeply, setting a bad example for the entire sporting world." It did not mention what triggered the WTA's decision to pull out of China in the first place.The "editorial" wasn't posted on the newspaper's Chinese-language social media accounts, and only appeared on its English-language website late on Thursday night. But even then, it was hidden from the homepage, a far cry from how editorials are usually displayed.In another English-language article, the Global Times said the Chinese Tennis Association (CTA) had expressed "indignation and firm opposition" to the WTA's decision. The CTA's response was not reported by Chinese language media, nor was it posted on the association's own website (The CTA did not respond to CNN's requests for comment).And at a news conference on Thursday, responding to a question about the WTA's withdrawal, a spokesperson for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said "China has always been firmly opposed to any act that politicizes sports." But even that exchange was deleted from the official transcript of the Q&A on the ministry's website.The lengths Beijing has gone to hide its anger toward the WTA from the Chinese public shows just how serious and sensitive the scandal is in the eyes of the ruling Communist Party -- especially before its twice-a-decade leadership reshuffle next fall, when President Xi Jinping is expected to seek a third term in power.As vice premier, Zhang, 75, served on the party's seven-person Politiburo Standing Committee -- the country's supreme leadership body -- alongside Xi from 2012 to 2017."It's kind of been an external storm, and they wanted to keep the storm outside China," Bandurski said. "It's an extremely sensitive issue for the leadership. I think probably one of the most sensitive news stories that's happened in the last decade."The Chinese government's main concern is laid in plain view in Hu's tweet, which accused the WTA of attacking on the "Chinese system.""Fundamentally, this is about protecting the political system in China -- this is the only body that's of concern. It's not about the personal safety of Peng Shuai, or her rights as an individual, as a woman, as a citizen." Bandurski said."Because as soon as they actually talk about this issue internally, people are going to ask: 'Well, what about Zhang Gaoli? Is it true? This is a high level official, why isn't anything happening to him? What is happening to him? Where is he?' And those questions immediately go to the heart of (the party's) power and legitimacy."Moments after the WTA announced it was pulling out of China in the early hours of Thursday, some Weibo users voiced support for the decision on the association's official Weibo account, under its old posts. (The WTA did not issue a Chinese version of its announcement on Weibo.)"WTA has a strong spine!" one comment said. "Why hasn't this man been arrested. He really has super strong backing. It's absurd," the comment continued, apparently referencing Zhang.These comments were soon removed. By Thursday afternoon, the comment section under its two most recent posts had been disabled. "Someone is busy deleting posts," a user wrote under a third post, only for that to be deleted too, and the comments on the post disabled.The WTA's account -- which has more than 400,000 followers -- is still up on Weibo, but it has been blocked from search results.While seemingly all powerful and sweeping, such censorship can come at a cost for the party, Bandurski said."There's always a flip side to censorship, especially when you can see it happen, when you experience it. It's a demerit for the system," he said. "The most effective way to control is to have it happen invisibly, and you're not really aware of what you're missing."In a way, the blanket censorship around Peng and the fallout also betrays Beijing's lack of confidence in its ability to spin the story and gain public support.Beijing has proved to be successful in rallying domestic support when faced with international criticism relating to Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet, chastising Western companies, organizations and governments for meddling in "China's internal affairs." On social media, nationalists often echo Beijing's fury, calling for boycotts of companies for "insulting China."But the Peng scandal is a different beast. Her allegation of sexual assault by a powerful man who once sat at the pinnacle of a patriarchal system could potentially trigger a groundswell of outrage and sympathy within China, especially young women, many of whom have voiced support for victims in previous #MeToo cases.And if the Communist Party is too afraid to try and convince its own people, any attempt to influence the international audience will almost certainly fail, experts say."The world has serious news media, there are serious political bodies -- like the United Nations and the European Union -- putting out statements (on Peng). And yet, all China has is ... almost entirely one man and a handful of Twitter accounts," Bandurski said."It's very raucous. It's very non-strategic. And I think in that sense, it's incredibly foolish."
A house of nearly 10,000 square feet in Dickerson, Maryland, an hour west of Baltimore, was engulfed in flames on November 23 when the homeowner tried to smoke out a snake infestation on the property, Pete Piringer, chief spokesperson for the Montgomery County Fire & Rescue Service, told CNN.Piringer said snakes had been an ongoing issue for this owner and the previous tenant as well.Coals were used as the heat source for the smoke, but they were placed too close to combustible materials, eventually setting the house on fire, Piringer explained.The fire started in the basement and quickly spread through each floor, engulfing the multistory home, according to CNN affiliate WJLA.Piringer told CNN that the owner was at home a few hours before, but luckily no one was there at the start of the fire. A neighbor passing by saw the smoke and called 911.At around 10 p.m., 75 firefighters showed up at the scene to battle the blaze."There were no fire hydrants in the area," Piringer said. "Which isn't a problem because we're used to it, but we had to shuttle in water tankers."It took a few hours for firefighters to get the fire under control, but it wasn't completely out until the next morning.The damages will cost more than $1 million, Piringer said. The house was recently purchased for $1.8 million, according to public records.The fire department deemed the incident an accident as there was no evidence, or intention, of starting the fire.Piringer recommends using other ways to battle an infestation."There are animal services that can come out and make recommendations, or pest control, or an exterminator," Piringer said. "We recommend you have professionals deal with any pest control issue to help maintain the situation."Being that there was no one home at the time, there were no injuries reported.The status of the snakes is unknown, but as the home was left in rubble, it's assumed they no longer live there.
