The day before the Omicron variant was detected in Japan, Prime Minister Kishida Fumio made an announcement that stirred fears among his country's expatriate community."I decided to put entry restrictions in place for foreigners from all over the world starting on Tuesday," he told reporters at a news conference on November 29.The government told airlines to suspend new flight bookings to Japan for the rest of the year, including for Japanese nationals.It frustrated citizens who hoped to travel home, forcing officials to reverse the decision 3 days later."I instructed the transport ministry to fully consider the demand from Japanese people for a way to return home," Kishida said.But missing from Kishida's statements was any mention of Japan's 2.9 million foreign residents. Many wondered if they were now banned from re-entering, and that anxiety has remained.Ukrainian Anna Omelchenko is feeling vulnerable as a resident of Japan who's abroad right now. She works at an IT company in Tokyo, but last week she flew home to visit her parents for the first time in 3 years.She plans to fly back to Japan later this month, and she's struggling to confirm if that will be possible."I wake up in the morning and I check what the government implemented and I need to go and check all the sites," Omelchenko told NHK from her parents' home in Baryshivka, Ukraine."And of course there is not enough information in English, and I need to read it in Japanese."Japan's government raised alarm when it banned the re-entry of foreigners from 10 countries in southern Africa, effective December 2.It brought back difficult memories from 2020, when many foreign residents were unable to return to Japan for months, while Japanese citizens were still allowed in.Experts like WHO Health Emergencies Program head Michael Ryan are critical of border restrictions that target nationality."Epidemiologically, I find it hard to understand the principle there," Ryan told a news conference on December 1."Is it that some passport holders will have the virus and some won't? Does the virus read your passport? Does the virus know your nationality or where you are legally resident?" Ryan said.Japanese immigration officials told NHK that as of December 3, foreign residents from most countries are still allowed to re-enter Japan.But some worry that could still change depending on what happens with the Omicron variant.The government has said the current rules will be in place until the end of December, for now.That isn't inspiring confidence for ex-pats who are planning to travel outside Japan soon. American Ashley McLaughlin is an English teacher in Japan. She has a flight booked to visit her family on December 4, but with the uncertainty around the border rules, she's on the verge of cancelling.McLaughlin worries things will change before she flies back to Japan in January."Is seeing my family worth possibly not being able to come back for an amount of time?" McLaughlin said. "So it's difficult for sure."On Friday, NHK asked officials from Japan's Immigration Services Agency to clarify the current border measures as they relate to foreign residents. The following are the restrictions as of December 3:
Japan is rolling back a travel ban that it put in place to stop the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant. The restriction would have left some citizens stranded abroad.The ban was on new bookings for flights into Japan for the rest of the year. The transport ministry had asked airlines to cooperate.Existing reservations would not have been canceled. But new bookings would have been virtually impossible, even for Japanese citizens.Prime Minister Kishida Fumio admitted Thursday the halt on new bookings had caused confusion. He said, "I instructed the transport ministry to fully consider the demand from Japanese people for a way to return home."The government did not mention foreign residents.But the situation is taking its toll on major events. The International Skating Union says it's canceling the Grand Prix Final international figure skating competition next week in the western prefecture of Osaka.On the vaccine front, Japan started giving booster shots to medical workers on Wednesday. In principle, people have to wait at least eight months after their second dose.But the government's chief spokesperson says that's not set in stone. Chief Cabinet Secretary Matsuno Hirokazu said, "The government will further consider which people do not have to wait eight months. Factors include the supply of doses, any changes in the infection situation, and the preparedness of local governments."Japan has the pandemic under relative control. New cases remain low. Authorities reported 127 across the country on Thursday. Tokyo confirmed 11. The current number of confirmed Omicron cases in Japan is two.Research institutes around the world are analyzing Omicron symptoms and the effectiveness of vaccines.The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control said all 44 people it confirmed as having Omicron in the EU on Tuesday had mild or no symptoms.A senior health official in Botswana told Reuters news agency 16 out of 19 people with Omicron had very mild or no symptoms.A Japanese expert says there's still no clear data on the new variant's characteristics.Kitasato University Professor Nakayama Tetsuo said, "The number of serious cases increases once infections spread to a certain extent, so we must not drop our guard. We must keep collecting data, make sure we understand the situation, and make decisions based on the results of experiments."
A magnitude 5.4 earthquake struck western Japan at 9:28 a.m. on Friday. It registered an intensity of up to five-minus on Japan's seismic scale of zero to seven in northern Wakayama Prefecture.Tremors have been recorded in neighboring prefectures, including Mie, Hyogo, Tokushima and Kagawa.The epicenter was on the coast of Wakayama. But officials say there is no threat of tsunami.Staff at NHK's Wakayama bureau say they felt tremors lasting for about five seconds.
Health authorities in the United States are urging people who attended an anime convention in New York City last month to get tested for the coronavirus.The recommendation comes after a participant was confirmed to have been infected with the Omicron variant, marking the second case in the US.Health officials from the state of Minnesota reported the case on Thursday. They said the male patient returned home to the Mid-western state after having attended the Anime NYC convention from November 19 to 21.The officials said he took a COVID-19 test on November 24 after developing mild symptoms, and he has since recovered.New York Governor Kathy Hochul urged attendees to get tested for the coronavirus as the three-day event attracted as many as 53,000 people.She said five more cases of the Omicron variant have been found in her state.  All of them are said to have mild symptoms.Health officials of New York City are also working to trace participants.
Authorities around the world are stepping up anti-infection measures. A total of 36 countries and territories have reported cases of the Omicron coronavirus variant so far.Officials in South Korea eased restrictions last month. But from Monday, private gatherings will be capped to six people in Seoul and its surrounding region. The country is seeing daily infection counts of around 5,000.In Japan, officials of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government have been busy drawing up emergency measures. They have unveiled a PCR screening method to detect the Omicron variant. Plans call for doubling the capacity of accommodation facilities for self-quarantine.Kaku Mitsuo at Tohoku Medical and Pharmaceutical University said, "A sense of crisis has been rising around the world, including Japan and Tokyo ever since the Omicron variant was detected. But now is the time to address the situation calmly and by making sure all possible measures are taken."Officials are speeding up booster programs. Japan rolled out a third round of doses on Wednesday for healthcare workers.A Tokyo hospital started the inoculation on Friday. It moved forward its schedule from the original date of December 20.More drugs are in the pipeline. US pharmaceutical firm Merck has filed the first application in Japan for the use of an oral COVID-19 drug.The company says Molnupiravir can cut the risk of hospitalization and death by 30 percent among high-risk patients, if administered within five days of the onset of symptoms.The health ministry has agreed with Merck to buy enough pills for 1.6 million people.Britain is the first country to approve the drug. US authorities are expected to decide soon whether to give it emergency authorization.On Friday, health authorities across Japan confirmed over 140 new coronavirus cases and one death. Tokyo reported 14 infections.
